# 1.2 Instantiating Beans

* Typically, to specify the bean class to be constructed in the case where the container itself directly creates the bean by calling its constructor reflectively, somewhat equivalent to Java code with the `new` operator.
* To specify the actual class containing the `static` factory method that is invoked to create the object, in the less common case where the container invokes a `static` factory method on a class to create the bean. The object type returned from the invocation of the `static` factory method may be the same class or another class entirely.

> [!NOTE|label:Inner class names]
> If you want to configure a bean definition for a `static` nested class, you have to use the **binary name** of the nested class.
For example, if you have a class called `SomeThing` in the `com.example` package, and this `SomeThing` class has a `static` nested class called `OtherThing`, the value of the `class` attribute on a bean definition would be `com.example.SomeThing$OtherThing`.
Notice the use of the `$` character in the name to separate the nested class name from the outer class name.

## Instantiation with a Constructor

When you create a bean by the constructor approach, all normal classes are usable by and compatible with Spring. That is, the class being developed does not need to implement any specific interfaces or to be coded in a specific fashion. Simply specifying the bean class should suffice. However, depending on what type of IoC you use for that specific bean, you may need a default \(empty\) constructor.

```xml
<bean id="exampleBean" class="examples.ExampleBean"/>

<bean name="anotherExample" class="examples.ExampleBeanTwo"/>
```

## Instantiation with a Static Factory Method

When defining a bean that you create with a static factory method, use the `class` attribute to specify the class that contains the `static` factory method and an attribute named `factory-method` to specify the name of the factory method itself. You should be able to call this method \(with optional arguments, as described later\) and return a live object, which subsequently is treated as if it had been created through a constructor. One use for such a bean definition is to call `static` factories in legacy code.

```xml
<bean id="clientService"
    class="examples.ClientService"
    factory-method="createInstance"/>
```

```java
public class ClientService {
    private static ClientService clientService = new ClientService();
    private ClientService() {}

    public static ClientService createInstance() {
        return clientService;
    }
}
```

## Instantiation by Using an Instance Factory Method

Similar to instantiation through [a static factory method,](1.2-instantiating-beans.md#instantiation-with-a-static-factory-method) instantiation with an instance factory method invokes a non-static method of an existing bean from the container to create a new bean. To use this mechanism, leave the `class` attribute empty and, in the `factory-bean` attribute, specify the name of a bean in the current \(or parent or ancestor\) container that contains the instance method that is to be invoked to create the object. Set the name of the factory method itself with the `factory-method` attribute. The following example shows how to configure such a bean:

```xml
<!-- the factory bean, which contains a method called createInstance() -->
<bean id="serviceLocator" class="examples.DefaultServiceLocator">
    <!-- inject any dependencies required by this locator bean -->
</bean>

<!-- the bean to be created via the factory bean -->
<bean id="clientService"
    factory-bean="serviceLocator"
    factory-method="createClientServiceInstance"/>
```

```java
public class DefaultServiceLocator {

    private static ClientService clientService = new ClientServiceImpl();

    public ClientService createClientServiceInstance() {
        return clientService;
    }
}
```

> [!WARNING]
> In Spring documentation, “factory bean” refers to a bean that is configured in the Spring container and that creates objects through an [instance](1.2-instantiating-beans.md#instantiation-by-using-an-instance-factory-method) or [static](1.2-instantiating-beans.md#instantiation-with-a-static-factory-method) factory method. By contrast, `FactoryBean` \(notice the capitalization\) refers to a Spring-specific [`FactoryBean`](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/core.html#beans-factory-extension-factorybean).
